pathogen/hmmer/10300_WY_CRN_hmmer.md, before:

#10300 Hmmer commands
==========
These commands were used to search Phytophthora proteins 
for characteristic motifs and domains using hmmer.


#Discovery WY motifs.

WY motifs are found in about half of P. infestans RxLR proteins.
A hmm model has been published in previous studies to detect WY motifs in proteins.
This was run on isolates sequenced at EMR.

The hmm model has previously been created using hmmbuild on a 
multiple sequence alignment file of RxLR proteins containing WY 
domains but with the signal peptide removed.
The multiple sequence alignment would have been in stockholm format.

The predicted phytophthora proteins are searched for homology
to the hmm model.

```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/WY_motif.hmm
	Proteome=../gene_pred/augustus/P.cactorum/10300/10300_augustus_preds.aa
	HmmResults=10300_WY_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
```

The number of proteins that passed the threshold for WY domains were:
```shell
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
The P. cactorum 10300 proteome contained 75 proteins that passes the WY-domain threshold. 


This was compared to the number of WY domain containing proteins
found in the 10300 proteome.
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/WY_motif.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/sigP_rxlr/P.cactorum/10300/10300_sigP_RxLR.fa
	HmmResults=10300_RxLR_WY_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of the 125 predicted genes containing signal peptides and RxLRs, 40 contained WY domains.

The following command was used to identify that 29 genes were present in both outputs, passing the threshold.
```shell
	for File in $(ls *WY_hmmer_out.txt); do 
		cat $File | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | cut -f1 | grep -E -w -o 'g.* ' | sed 's/ //g'; 
	done | sort | uniq -d | wc -l
```

ORF fragments predicted from the atg.pl script that also
possessed SigP and RxLR motifs were searched for WY domains:
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/WY_motif.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/rxlr_atg/P.cactorum/10300/10300_sp_rxlr.fa
	HmmResults=10300_ORF_RxLR_WY_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of the 1252 ORF fragments that possess RxLR and SigP domains, 75 also contained WY domains.






#Discovery of CRN motifs

A hmm model to detect crinklers has been developed in previous studies for P. infestans.
This model was used to screen:
a) Predicted proteins
b) Predicted crinklers (using motif searches)
c) Predicted ORF fragments.


a) Predicted proteins
The proteome as predicted by Augustus was 
searched for homology to Crinkler models.
The following commands were run:
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/Phyt_annot_CRNs_D1.hmm
	Proteome=../gene_pred/augustus/P.cactorum/10300/10300_augustus_preds.aa
	HmmResults=10300_CRN_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of 17801 proteins predicted this search returned
64 proteins with homology to Crinkler models.


b) Predicted crinklers
Crinklers predicted using searches for HVLVVVP and 
LxFLAK motifs were searched using the crinkler model.
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/Phyt_annot_CRNs_D1.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/motif_search/P.cactorum/10300/10300_LxLFLAK_HVLVVVP.fa
	HmmResults=10300_Aug_CRN_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
```
As these results didn't return any hits with scores below
the inclusion threshold the previous command to view results
didn't work. In this case the following command was used:
```shell 
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'Domain annotation for each sequence' | tail -n +15 | head -n -3 | wc -l
```
Of the 16 putative crinklers, 16 of these had support from the hmm model.

c) Predicted ORF fragments
ORF fragments as predicted by atg.pl were searched using
the Crinkler model. These sequences had not been filtered 
by presence of a SigP or any motif.
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/Phyt_annot_CRNs_D1.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/rxlr_atg/P.cactorum/10300/10300.aa_cat.fa
	HmmResults=10300_ORF_CRN_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of the 456656 ORF fragments searched, 120 sequences
showed homology to Crinkler models.

Commit message:

Counted hits below threshold for atg.pl crinkler hits

pathogen/hmmer/10300_WY_CRN_hmmer.md, after:

#10300 Hmmer commands
==========
These commands were used to search Phytophthora proteins 
for characteristic motifs and domains using hmmer.


#Discovery WY motifs.

WY motifs are found in about half of P. infestans RxLR proteins.
A hmm model has been published in previous studies to detect WY motifs in proteins.
This was run on isolates sequenced at EMR.

The hmm model has previously been created using hmmbuild on a 
multiple sequence alignment file of RxLR proteins containing WY 
domains but with the signal peptide removed.
The multiple sequence alignment would have been in stockholm format.

The predicted phytophthora proteins are searched for homology
to the hmm model.

```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/WY_motif.hmm
	Proteome=../gene_pred/augustus/P.cactorum/10300/10300_augustus_preds.aa
	HmmResults=10300_WY_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
```

The number of proteins that passed the threshold for WY domains were:
```shell
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
The P. cactorum 10300 proteome contained 75 proteins that passes the WY-domain threshold. 

This was compared to the number of WY domain containing proteins
found in the 10300 proteome.
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/WY_motif.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/sigP_rxlr/P.cactorum/10300/10300_sigP_RxLR.fa
	HmmResults=10300_RxLR_WY_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of the 125 predicted genes containing signal peptides and RxLRs, 40 contained WY domains.

The following command was used to identify that 29 genes were present in both outputs, passing the threshold.
```shell
	for File in $(ls *WY_hmmer_out.txt); do 
		cat $File | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | cut -f1 | grep -E -w -o 'g.* ' | sed 's/ //g'; 
	done | sort | uniq -d | wc -l
```

ORF fragments predicted from the atg.pl script that also
possessed SigP and RxLR motifs were searched for WY domains:
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/WY_motif.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/rxlr_atg/P.cactorum/10300/10300_sp_rxlr.fa
	HmmResults=10300_ORF_RxLR_WY_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of the 1252 ORF fragments that possess RxLR and SigP domains, 75 also contained WY domains.






#Discovery of CRN motifs

A hmm model to detect crinklers has been developed in previous studies for P. infestans.
This model was used to screen:
a) Predicted proteins
b) Predicted crinklers (using motif searches)
c) Predicted ORF fragments.


a) Predicted proteins
The proteome as predicted by Augustus was 
searched for homology to Crinkler models.
The following commands were run:
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/Phyt_annot_CRNs_D1.hmm
	Proteome=../gene_pred/augustus/P.cactorum/10300/10300_augustus_preds.aa
	HmmResults=10300_CRN_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of 17801 proteins predicted this search returned
64 proteins with homology to Crinkler models.


b) Predicted crinklers
Crinklers predicted using searches for HVLVVVP and 
LxFLAK motifs were searched using the crinkler model.
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/Phyt_annot_CRNs_D1.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/motif_search/P.cactorum/10300/10300_LxLFLAK_HVLVVVP.fa
	HmmResults=10300_Aug_CRN_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
```
As these results didn't return any hits with scores below
the inclusion threshold the previous command to view results
didn't work. In this case the following command was used:
```shell 
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'Domain annotation for each sequence' | tail -n +15 | head -n -3 | wc -l
```
Of the 16 putative crinklers, 16 of these had support from the hmm model.


c) Predicted ORF fragments
ORF fragments as predicted by atg.pl were searched using
the Crinkler model. These sequences had not been filtered 
by presence of a SigP or any motif.
```shell
	HmmModel=/home/armita/git_repos/emr_repos/scripts/phytophthora/pathogen/hmmer/Phyt_annot_CRNs_D1.hmm
	Proteome=../analysis/rxlr_atg/P.cactorum/10300/10300.aa_cat.fa
	HmmResults=10300_ORF_CRN_hmmer_out.txt
	hmmsearch $HmmModel $Proteome > $HmmResults
	cat $HmmResults | grep -B500 'inclusion threshold' | tail -n +15 | head -n -1 | wc -l
```
Of the 456656 ORF fragments searched, 120 sequences
showed homology to Crinkler models. 
Visual inspection of these hits showed many of these 
features had a neighbouring feature that also passed 
the threshold for similarity to the model.

There were a number of ORF fragments that didn't pass 
the inclusion threshold. These were counted using the following command:
```shell
	cat $HmmResults | grep -A500 'inclusion threshold' | grep -B500 'Domain annotation for each sequence' | tail -n +2 | head -n -3 | wc -l
```
47 genes were +ve but did not pass the inclusion threshold.
